# Reflection - Milestone 4

We have implemented everything that we set out to implement in our sketch and some of the improvements from our reflection in milestone 2, as well as other improvements we recieved from feedback (outlined below). The improvements we have yet to implement from our reflection include the removal of loss percentages from the map (as we are still unsure if we want to remove it), and the addition of interactivity to our stressor plot, which was completely overhauled in this milestone.

We believe our app is easy and intuitive to use, and our peer reviewer, Cuthbert, also agreed with this. However, he did think that the fact that there are two widgets related to time, one controlling the time series and bar chart and the other controlling the map, confusing. He suggested that we have separate tabs for plots that have a range of time periods and plots that have singular time periods. We did not implement this suggestion because we wanted to keep our dashboard simple, with all plots on the same page. The difference between the plots with singular time periods and a range of time periods was a reoccurring theme in Cuthbert’s suggestions. He also suggested that we allow for the aggregation of time periods in our map. We opted to not include this suggestion because the metrics being shown in the map cannot easily be aggregated since they are the percentage of colony loss from the max amount of colonies in a singular time period. Instead, we added plot titles for the plots with singular time periods specifying which time period is currently being visualized to make it clear to the user that those plots are for singular time periods only.

Our DashR app was made up-to-date with the milestone 2 version of our DashPy app, as per the instructions in milestone 4. That means none of the improvements added in this milestone to DashPy made it to DashR. These improvements include the allowance of multiple states to be selected for the time series chart and the stressor chart, the change of the stressor plot from a stacked bar chart with time on the x-axis, to a grouped bar chart visualizing a single period in time with stressors on the x-axis for different states, the time period titles for the stressor chart and map, the replacement of the dropdown menus for the time series range with a slider, and the addition of the link to our GitHub. Other minor differences are the difference in colour theme between the maps, the difference in tooltip formatting due to difficulties in translating altair code to plotly, and the plots on R also have more interactivity such as zooming since this is automatically included with plotly.

There were some problems with the deployment of DashR. Although it works fine locally, the widgets and plots in the app are not visible sometimes after being deployed on Heroku. From the discussion in the group and on slack, it seems that our DashR app is not the only one suffering from this problem and we are still trying to work out how to fix it.

Overall, all of the feedback we have received has been extremely constructive, and we did our best to implement most of them with the time we had while remaining true to our vision of the app.
